Jlink Task aware debug in Eclipse (#2166)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/debug/eclipse_jlink.md

   ![Eclipse: GDB Segger Debug config: debugger tab](../../assets/debug/eclipse_settings_debug_config_gdb_segger_build_config_debugger_tab.png)
   ![Eclipse: GDB Segger Debug config: startup tab](../../assets/debug/eclipse_settings_debug_config_gdb_segger_build_config_startup_tab.png)

> ## SEGGER Task-aware debugging

Reviewer: @PetervdPerk-NXP 
Is this the same as "Thread aware debugging"? https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/tools/j-link-gdb-server/thread-aware-debugging/

Author: Yes it's I've added a heading to be more clear about it.

> ## SEGGER Task-aware debugging

Reviewer: Is this something that should also be added to the VS Studio docs in some way?

Author: VS Code can do this as well but could also be automated see
https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/pull/20673#issuecomment-1329209245
However I don't use VS Code that often myself so someone more experienced could take a look at that.

Reviewer 2: I'll be going through it shortly.

> 1. Make sure that in your build the following config is enabled *Enable TCBinfo struct for debug* `CONFIG_DEBUG_TCBINFO`

Reviewer: What is `CONFIG_DEBUG_TCBINFO` that is sitting at the end of this line? It looks like a typo - but it could be this is a setting you configure somewhere they is also set using the menuconfig (i.e. this is the actual setting, and menuconfig is hides this behind "Enable TCBinfo struct for debug".

Author: It's the internal config symbol used by NuttX

   - Hint you can change this through make <target> menuconfig
   ![NuttX: Menuconfig: CONFIG_DEBUG_TCBINFO](../../assets/debug/nuttx_tcb_task_aware.png)

> 1. Run `make jlink-nuttx` to compile the jlink-nuttx.so library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run `make jlink-nuttx` to compile the **jlink-nuttx.so** library
```

   ![Eclipse: GDB Segger Debug config: debugger tab](../../assets/debug/eclipse_settings_debug_config_gdb_segger_build_config_debugger_tab.png)
   ![Eclipse: GDB Segger Debug config: startup tab](../../assets/debug/eclipse_settings_debug_config_gdb_segger_build_config_startup_tab.png)

## SEGGER Task-aware debugging

> Also known as Thread Aware debugging allows you to show the context of all running threads/tasks instead of just the stack current task. This is quite usefull since PX4 tend run many different tasks.

Reviewer: IMO does not hurt to provide a link to the JLink docs.

```suggestion
Task-aware debugging (also known as [thread-aware debugging](https://www.segger.com/products/debug-probes/j-link/tools/j-link-gdb-server/thread-aware-debugging/) allows you to show the context of all running threads/tasks instead of just the stack current task.
This is quite useful since PX4 tends to run many different tasks.
```

> 1. Make sure that in your build the following config is enabled *Enable TCBinfo struct for debug* symbol `CONFIG_DEBUG_TCBINFO`
>    - Hint you can change this through make <target> menuconfig
>    ![NuttX: Menuconfig: CONFIG_DEBUG_TCBINFO](../../assets/debug/nuttx_tcb_task_aware.png)
> 1. Run `make jlink-nuttx` to compile the **jlink-nuttx.so** library
> 1. Modify Eclipse: GDB Segger Debug config *Other options* to include `-rtos /home/<PX4 path>/Tools/jlink-nuttx.so`
>    ![Eclipse: GDB Segger Debug config RTOS aware: debugger tab](../../assets/debug/eclipse_settings_debug_config_gdb_segger_task_aware.png)
> 1. When running the debugger you should see now multiple threads instead of 1
>    ![Eclipse: GDB Segger Debug config RTOS aware: debug session](../../assets/debug/eclipse_settings_debug_config_gdb_segger_task_aware_tasks.png)
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: Minor tidy:

```suggestion
To enable this feature for use in Eclipse:

1. You first need to enable `CONFIG_DEBUG_TCBINFO` in the NuttX configuration for your build (to expose the TCB offsets).
    - Open a terminal in the root of your PX4-Autopilot source code
    - In the terminal, open `menuconfig` using the appropriate make target for the build.
      This will be something like:
      ```
      make px4_fmu-v5_default boardguiconfig
      ```
      (See [PX4 Menuconfig Setup](../hardware/porting_guide_config.md#px4-menuconfig-setup) for more information) on using the config tools).
   - Ensure that the *Enable TCBinfo struct for debug* is selected as shown:
      ![NuttX: Menuconfig: CONFIG_DEBUG_TCBINFO](../../assets/debug/nuttx_tcb_task_aware.png)
1. Compile the **jlink-nuttx.so** library in the terminal by running the following command in the terminal:
   ```
   make jlink-nuttx
   ```
1. Modify Eclipse to use this libary.
    In the *J-Link GDB Server Setup* configuration, update **Other options** to include `-rtos /home/<PX4 path>/Tools/jlink-nuttx.so`, as shown in the image below.

   ![Eclipse: GDB Segger Debug config RTOS aware: debugger tab](../../assets/debug/eclipse_settings_debug_config_gdb_segger_task_aware.png)
1. When running the debugger you should see now multiple threads instead of just one:

   ![Eclipse: GDB Segger Debug config RTOS aware: debug session](../../assets/debug/eclipse_settings_debug_config_gdb_segger_task_aware_tasks.png)

```
